I don't see a spot you know even if you
saw a spot the horse Protection Act
allows for thickened epithelium and it
says much like a workman's hands
calluses on the working sentence this
horse didn't have that we're gonna
palpate and then we're gonna look at his
hashed and see if he has any scars okay
let's look at the back of his pastures
this horse you can see it's got no
raised areas but he does have a sheared
heal what we call a sheared heal and
that's just where Hills pushed up that's
not cause for a or a violation on the
scar rule but you can see how smooth his
pastern is they sort of hurt us with the
with the contracted heals because one of
the best ways to help that is by putting
an impression material in the sole of
the foot and and that helps put pressure
on the Frog which helps keep those hills
fresh also putting a hill spring in it
but in the great wisdom of the USDA
they've made it illegal to put Hill
Springs in they've made it illegal to
put certain types of impression material
in so these guys have sort of handicap
to what they can do I'm gonna palpate in
first than the move will work it
backwards and do the look at his
pastures afterwards
okay let's look at his pastures
again you can see there's not even a
raised area there he's got some dirt
left in there from being in the stock
but there's no raised area this hill he
didn't he's not compressed at all here I
see no problem with this foot it amazes
me that horse like this can be turned
down the sad part about is you get a
foot this clean and everybody wants to
say well he just got a scar rule well
the government when they go back to the
DC they don't call this a scarf I don't
say he has a rink on his foot that's
considered a bilateral sore horse okay
again we're gonna do it backwards we're
gonna palpate even then we're gonna look
at his feet cuz we know this horse was
turned down for scar rule he is uh stood
now look at this I mean just look at it
this is a particular set the the
industry inspectors were asked before
the show started the night this horse
retired down a BMO one of the veterinary
medical officers nothing says to the to
the inspectors okay are y'all gonna turn
down blank-blank horse and the industry
inspector said well we haven't seen him
yet he said no I want to know her y'all
gonna turn down black bike horse are
y'all gonna make me do it and they said
we're not gonna do it till we inspect
him if he needs to be out he's out it
sort of proves to me that there's a
predetermined agenda on behalf of the
USDA to target certain people look at
this
there's there's smooth as they can be
he's got a little discoloration right
here but that you can't feel anything
it's it's obviously a predetermined
agenda
corta DQ Pisa a conservative estimate
was that 75% of do not have any
blemishes from back defeat
this horse is almost 17 years old he is
a poster child for the industry
there's a 16 year old poster child right
there right here the prime example of
inconsistency by the government April
19th
- so past June 20th
Baker scar room July 26 Baker past -
August 11th Baker past celebration the
slowest car route right hand not knowing
what the left hand is doing
this one had never had the first ticket
however at the celebration they got this
one's got a sensitivity on a foot that
never moved as you could see there is no
movement reaction there was no action
the night that they turned her down from
being sensitive either that's a happy
horse ain't you baby
yeah the horse Protection Act says that
a horse can have thickened epithelium
much like the calluses on on a workman's
hand that's quoting from the horse
Protection Act what it says you can't
have is bilateral granulomas which are
big nodule legions on the back of the
foot or excessive hair loss that horse
had plenty of hair no hair loss that
horse has a little rink on his left foot
and you go to his right foot he has
absolutely nothing this horse is owned
by a prominent well-known attorney in
the industry who's done a lot of free
gratis work for the industry his name's
out there and in my opinion this horse
was turned down due to a predetermined
agenda on the part of the USDA